good morning everybody happy saster I'm
thrilled to be here hope that you are as
well thanks for attending the session my
name is Sam blonde as the voice of god
mentioned I was cro at brex I've been in
Tech sales for something like 15 years I
was fortunate and lucky when I first got
into Tech sales to join a company called
echosign as an SDR echosign is Jason
lykins company that he built and we
eventually sold to Adobe and that sort
of launched my career in Tech sales
where I lived and breathed for 15 years
and then subsequently was a partner at
Founders fund for a couple years and now
I'm back focusing on operating again
let's see before we jump in I I think
2013 was the first saster event that I
attended and it was probably the first
saster event that existed it was in mow
park it was a few hundred people that
Jason had put together and I think the
success rate of building a community and
events business like saster has gone on
to do is probably analogous to building
a really success it's just been so
gratifying for me to be a part of seeing
the evolution of saster again analogous
to something like the data bricks or
revolutes on the startup side is this
community and so it's very cool to be
here in London with all of you and again
thank you for attending the session
we're going to talk about easy sales
Concepts so many get wrong today and
there are nine of them the first one is
a people related concept and then the
following eight are going to be customer
acquisition related Concepts ranging
from demand gen all the way through to
implementation so with that we'll Jump
Right
In all right the first concept is don't
Outsource
recruiting I get text messages emails
when I meet with Founders and sales
leaders the question that comes up
pretty regularly is something like which
external recruiting firm do you
recommend for sourcing and H ing AES
sales leaders whatever the higher of the
day is and I'll respond with something
like you're a couple that I think have
good reputations but really I wouldn't
recommend leveraging external recruiters
to Source your account Executives sales
leaders whatever person you are hiring
and I think the calculus and maybe why
it's such a default for Founders and
sometimes sales leaders is I I think
there may be two things that they
believe will happen they believe it
might save time
especially if you're a Founder you have
to Source candidates you have to ask
people who they would recommend you have
to interview people you have to hustle
to really make a hire and then these
recruiting firms they have endless
supply of candidates that they can just
send to you and so it's going to save
time if we leverage an external
recruiting firm I think the second thing
that people make the Assumption around
especially Founders is I don't have this
network of sales people people and so if
I want the best candidates I need to go
to an expert an external recruiter that
spends all of their time recruiting and
sourcing sales candidates and I think
both of those things are actually wrong
the first one you don't end up saving
time because what ends up happening you
reach out to a few different firms you
on board with those firms you talk about
what you're looking for you sell them on
your business a little bit and then they
start sending you a bunch of resumés and
every resume says something like top 5%
of the sales team president's Club 180%
to quota these are like every sales
resume I've ever seen and so then you
look at them and you're like okay sure
I'll take calls with all of these people
you end up having six or seven calls
they all seem like good like some are
better than others okay I'm going to
like maybe hire this person so let's do
some back Channel references I'm going
to interview them more and at the end of
the day and Al you're inserting risk and
so then as you onboard train there's
potentially more effort there if you
hire the wrong person and ultimately if
you hire the wrong person you're moving
on from them and and it's a huge time
suck so I I think ultimately you are
spending far more time leveraging
external recruiters because of the
process that I just described then if
you're able to leverage your personal
Network and find some people that you
know were top performers at a prior
company I think the other thing is I
talked about this idea that you're going
to to get the best candidates the best
candidates don't really use external
recruiters the best candidates often
times want to go somewhere where their
reputation precedes them and so this is
one thing at brex that we actually did
get right and there's at least one slide
where I'll talk about getting it wrong
at brex when I joined the first two
sales reps were folks that were
referrals from our CFO who is at Sofi
the candidates that I brought in the
first hires that I brought in were all
personal network from zenfit and other
places that I had connections we then
leveraged their personal networks one of
the first person people that I brought
on was a sales rep from Gusto he brought
on the second best rep at Gusto and so
we leveraged their personal networks and
none of these people the folks from Sofi
the folks that I brought on from zenitz
the folks that I just referenced from
Gusto none of them are going to use a a
third-party recruiter because they want
to go somewhere where their reputation
precedes them and so you actually end up
with a population of candidates that is
inferior they're certainly outliers this
isn't universally true but the
population of candidates that join
companies as a referral are going to be
higher performers than the population of
candidates that join companies from a
thirdparty
recruiter all right continuing along I
mentioned one people related slide we're
going to talk about eight concepts
related to customer acquisition the
first one is focus on demand until you
have too
much I did some Consulting still do some
Consulting talk to Founders pretty
regularly talk about the performance of
the business where the biggest
opportunities exist and seemingly
universally where Founders sales leaders
gravitate towards is the existing
pipeline that they are working or
historical pipeline that may or may not
have converted and we're coming up at
the end of June it's Q2 so much focus
and emphasis of businesses on the
opportunities that we have in the
pipeline that we are trying to close in
Q2 and the performance of Q2 is
predicated on whether or not we close
these big deals that we have in the
pipeline and I think that is a remix of
every quarter prior and in a way what
you were doing is you were diagnosing
the biggest opportunity for growing the
business the biggest opportunity within
sales as conversion rates you were
thinking about the opportunities that
exist in the pipeline that is where your
focus is right now and my belief is that
is actually a missed opportunity in most
cases and when I go a layer deeper and I
go meet with the sales reps the people
that are on the ground one of the first
questions that I ask is something like
how many new opportunities were you able
to create this week and the answer is
depends company specific and it depends
on sales cycles and the Tam that they're
going after how transactional the sale
is but often times it's something like I
really only talked to one or two
potential new customers this week okay
and how are you spending your time I'm
spending a lot of time following up with
old opportunities maybe working with
some customers that previously closed uh
uh wishy-washy answer but when I look at
calendars much of their time is not
spent customer facing and what I
diagnose in this environment which is
seemingly universally true there are
outlier exceptions but what I diagnose
in this o in this environment as the
biggest opportunity to grow Revenue
faster is creating more opportunities we
are in a demand poor
environment the result that most people
conclude in this environment is we need
more sales we need to hire more sales
people that is the wrong answer more
salese often times will focus on the
middle of the funnel and so if you have
a limited number of opportunities if you
are again what I would describe as this
demand poor environment you add more
salespeople into this demand po
environment you are spreading the
limited amount of demand that you do
have to more less tenured salespeople
with lower conversion rates that is the
wrong conclusion to hire more salese
when you are looking for more sales if
you are in this demand poor environment
again this demand po environment it
leads to so many problems the problems
that leads to are things like sales reps
Clinging On to opportunities for way too
long um focusing their efforts on
following up with people who aren't
responding to their emails and the
opportunity with again just focusing
effort in the form of resources so
people and then Focus On Demand instead
of on the existing funnel will produce
more revenue for the business than
focusing on I would again describe the
middle of the funnel conversion rates I
think so many misdiagnose this if you
can get the first two slides
right almost nothing else matters if you
can get the right people from a
recruiting standpoint which I would
argue starts with sourcing the right
people if you can create a demand Rich
environment so many other problems just
dissipate so I would say of the slides
the first two are the highest order
priority of getting right as I think
about opportunities that exist
universally in
startups we're going to move on we
talked about the importance of
generating demand and why and how so
many companies misdiagnose it I'm going
to spend a couple slides talking about
how to generate demand the first one is
just a concept versus an idea in itself
but you should do things that stand out
I think so
many businesses as they generate demand
there's going through the emotions we
are sponsoring this event we are doing
online paid advertising through Google
and Linkedin surfacing ads we are doing
outbound emails with sdrs and we have
Outreach and we have zoom info and we
blasting the universe with messaging
that we think is creative or maybe that
an AI wrote and I think the things that
are truly successful in generating
demand are these things that very few
people or no one else is doing when I
think about my time at brecks I I've
I've talked a lot about a champagne cam
campaign that we did where we sent
bottles of champagne to Founders and the
conversion rates of that at the very top
of the funnel instead of an outbound
email one that I think is really
creative it's on the slide is and maybe
even famous at this point this is back
in 2000 I think Salesforce was founded
in 1999 and so salesforce's early stage
startup in the year 2000 seil had their
annual conference in San Francisco and
Salesforce staged a protest outside of
the seable conference they had the fake
reporter in the slide and Salesforce now
famous logo that's the software with the
do not pass go signed through it and
this received so much attention from the
conference attendees that were their
direct target market that as you walk
into the conference there's this like
fake protest everybody's looking at
what's going on the Salesforce
announcing their product as a competitor
to seble and I don't know how much this
costs but these are probably employees
of Salesforce that they just have one
day going standing outside the seel
conference and you make a couple signs
and so it's inexpensive and it's hugely
impactful it is choose your favorite
word contrarian stands out and and that
is the types of demandin campaigns that
I love to do one way of measuring this
is as I that we're approaching the end
of Q2 here one way of measuring this is
rather than looking at some of the data
around things like sqls mqls stage two
opportunities the things that people
usually track to determine the
efficiency or productivity of the top of
the funnel whether it's marketing or
sales top of the funnel to ask what the
three two or three most creative things
that you as a company have done this
quarter to generate demand and if
there's not really an answer you're not
being creative enough and so you should
do that both as a reflection every
quarter you should also do that at the
start of every quarter what are the two
or three really creative campaigns that
we're going to run that nobody else is
doing or that very few people are doing
and I think that's a decent measure to
make sure that you're fulfilling this
doing things that stand
out all right the next one sticking with
the demandin category leverage happy
customers to generate new ones this is
one where I think the status
quo is either doing nothing or doing the
bare
minimum and there are so many
opportunities if if you are delighting
customers some things start happening
organically customers make
referrals and you you generate new
customers that happens organically
sometimes you don't have to ask for a
referral for customer to make a referral
customers will post about their
experience on LinkedIn or on Twitter or
whatever social media customers will
just speak positively about you to their
peers they'll speak at a user conference
that you host there's just a number of
things that customers do and I think the
default on this or the status quo is
somebody posts something nice about you
on Twitter maybe the CEO sends like a
thank you email or likes the message and
says thank you on Twitter I think these
are opportunities where you can really
go above and beyond and it will drive
behavior that will just be like magic
for you the benefits of doing this so
I'll I'll talk about an example of what
I mean here if you have most people know
who their like raving fan customers are
these are again the people that are
posting on social referring customers
when something like that happens
just test is an opportunity to really go
above and beyond with a what I'll
describe as a thank you and an example
would be something like we're of course
in Europe right now European football
not American football is the most
popular sport and so maybe you see on
somebody's Twitter that their favorite
team is Manchester I don't know and they
have referred a customer they post about
you on Twitter they're just one of these
customers they're like top 10 customer
they they're really helping you going
out of their way to help you send that
person like an autographed jersey of the
best player on Manchester United
handwritten note thank you so much for
everything that you have done to help
our business do this to all of your
favorite customers I don't know the
exact number that it will be it'll be
different for different companies and
what will happen from there again is
just magic and if you put yourself in
the shoes of the person that I am
describing right now the recipient of
whatever you want to do as a gesture for
that person think how many times some
everybody has their favorite products
everybody has posted online about uh
their favorite product or gone out of
their way to refer a customer think
about how many times you have received
something like what I just described
it's probably zero or you can think
about the number of times on one hand
and so when something like that happens
to you it really stands out you remember
it forever and you want to do more to
help this business I think so many
companies
focus on generating new customers by
focusing directly on those customers but
you already have an army of potential
quote unquote salespeople in your happy
customer base and um again like the the
status quo here is to thank you email
not even ask for a referral I would
argue that you should be spending time
effort and money leveraging your happy
customers to try and generate new ones
all right I think this is the last
demand gen oriented concept distribution
is as important as the announcement and
what comes to mind here is so much
effort goes into things like a fund
raise and then maybe getting PR around
the fund raise so much effort goes into
things like developing product for a new
product launch so much effort goes into
things like brex was just on this CNBC
disruptor 50 list and somebody on
marketing worked really hard in getting
brex the position that brex was placed
in I think it was like open AI stripe
andural brex data brecks those were the
top five companies quite good company
and somebody spent a bunch of time
working on getting the data to CNBC and
getting that slot earned and then so
little time and effort is generally
placed on what I would describe is
distribution and this is why I say
distribution is as important as the
announcement one thing that we did at
brex when we launched our product
initially and we had our fundraising
announcement um we created a spreadsheet
it was we were about 20 employees at the
time we had of course like all of our
investors all of our employees on this
spreadsheet but then we had every single
employee come up with the most
influential people that they know that
they've ever worked with and add them to
that spreadsheet and for me it was
people like Jason limkin Parker who on
this slide Parker was my CEO at inits
and several others and you multiply that
by 20 people and you've got a pretty
long list of folks on this spreadsheet
and what we did on the day that we
launched and it looks like it was June
19th or there about 2018 what we did was
we reached out to every single person on
this list and asked them to tweet
LinkedIn message whatever it might be
and because of that we were everywhere
if you were on social that day and you
have any following of tech people and
you can see some influential folks on
this slide right now you were seeing a
message about brex launching and I think
again the default here is to focus too
much on the announcement itself the
development of the product working on
getting on the the the list that I just
described working on the fundraise
itself and less on the distribution
and is you want and product launches I
think is maybe the biggest example is is
there's an announcement that you want to
get out like a product launch in
addition to focusing so much of your
efforts on the product development
itself focus on the distribution of that
announcement and it will be a more
successful product
launch all right we're moving on a
little bit further down the funnel this
is
one I think it's possibly oriented
towards Founders doing founder Le sales
and then it probably evolves a bit as
sales organizations get more mature but
especially when I talk to early sales
reps early sales leaders or Founders
that are doing initial customer
acquisition one of the biggest questions
that comes up is basically around have
somebody that seems interested we had a
first call the demo went well they said
that this could be a fit at their
company I don't totally know what to do
and there are different flavors around
I'm anxious about bringing up pricing
I'm a Founder I've never really sold
before and so I don't know like how do I
price the product how do I introduce
pricing is it too early to introduce
pricing and then for salespeople is
there anybody else that needs to look at
this product do we need to include them
in a demo and so there's just a little
bit of ambiguity I think especially in
early days of customer acquisition and
my diagnosis or the concept that I
recommend here is from day one be
prescriptive on how to buy your product
and as you are introducing a potential
customer to your business and product
you're going to do something like show
them a product demo hopefully gauge
their interest what you should do very
shortly thereafter is talk about what I
would describe the happy Paths of
onboarding as a customer and it's
generally going to be things like um
we're going to do we recommend doing a
twoe trial after that twoe trial we uh
introduce pricing we're taking on only
20 new customers in the month of June
we're at 17 right now there are three
slots left we're offering 20% discounts
for early customers here's list priced
here's what your price would be does
this sort of look like something that
makes sense on your end and your
customer actually wants to be educated
on how to buy your product if you don't
know how somebody should buy your
product the customer certainly doesn't
know how you should buy your product and
again from very early days be
prescriptive on how to buy your product
with your customer and then you're going
to get some feedback it's not going to
be one siiz fits all you're going to
have again what I described as this
happy path and some customers are going
to be like look legal needs to get
involved they Redline agreements they
take two weeks perfect let's add that to
your specific journey of how it might
look to on board as a customer okay
again sticking with middle of the funnel
and winning deals this is one that I
love it is the presumptive close I think
it's particularly relevant for
businesses that I would say have a more
transactional sale defined as something
like average cycle times of less than 30
days and I also think it's particularly
relevant for businesses that have either
a free product and I'll give an example
of what I mean by that or a an offering
of a
trial and I'm going to talk about the
examples that I just described the free
product one when we would give a new
customer demo at brex in the early days
hopefully still today we would walk
through the product we would actually
before we'd start we'd have an agenda on
the agenda would be little bit of
Discovery find out about your
environment what you're currently using
what matters to you in a corporate card
and spin management solution and then
from there we're going to design a
product demo around your needs and wants
and then at the end of the call we've
got 45 minutes today there'll be five
minutes left we actually want to get you
on brex so with those five minutes we'll
walk you through the product application
so you can actually start trying the
product yourself now this works again
really well in an environment where brex
is free it's a corporate card we made
money on interchange and this is when I
described the presumptive close we are
actually setting the the customer up to
walk through the product application and
become a customer at the end of the call
we're doing that from the very outset of
the call Now doesn't work 100% of the
time sometimes folks say something like
I need to include my finance person or
something like that no no problem but
the presumptive close I think probably
increased conversion rates by something
like 2 to 3x because we would start
walking through that product application
on the very first call people would be
invested in the business they would have
their card we' give them a card in real
time as part of that application at the
end of the call I think the same thing
is true for businesses that have free
trials so what we're trying to do here
is we are trying to remove as much
friction as we can from the sales
process and trying to get to trying to
bring the time to Value as immediate as
possible and if we're giving somebody a
product demo and again this presumptive
close in this environment being getting
them on a trial at the end of the call
we're going to if you like what you've
seen today in a demo format you're going
to love experiencing it as a potential
customer we're going to get you signed
up with a free trial I'm going to walk
you through the process of getting
signed up for a free trial and then
we'll talk about what you should be
looking for out of this trial and again
you're removing friction from the sales
process it's this concept of a
presumptive close whether it be actually
closing the customer in a free
environment like I described with Rex or
closing them on a trial and getting them
to use the product so we're trying to
remove Steps From the Sal cycle with the
presumptive
close all right I think this is the last
one around closing customers then I have
one related to implementation and if
there's some time we'll leave it open
for questions I think what happened here
is in 2020 so many if not mostly
everyone started working from home and
this was true for people that were
selling products this is true for people
that were buying products prior to 2020
it was quite common to meet prospective
customers in person in fact for a lot of
sales folks it was almost the default
and we haven't really returned to that I
think so many folks still work from home
whether you're again on the seller side
or on the buyer side one thing that we
measured while I was at brex was
conversion rates when people were
selling remote virtually they didn't
meet the customer and conversion rates
when people met the customer in person
and when we met a prospective customer
in person we had 3x the likelihood of
closing that customer we were fortunate
we were based in San Francisco so many
of our customers were based in San
Francisco and so meeting a a potential
customer in person often times meant
just like walking down the street or
getting a 5-minute Uber and so there is
some calculation that you want to do
around something like size of
opportunity and convenience of meeting a
customer but in this environment I think
it is an opportunity given again the
status quo or the thesis of the slide
deck is around that so many get wrong
today the default if you are in a
competitive
deal most likely your competitor is not
meeting the customer in person and if
you can differentiate Yourself by
developing that relationship by putting
in the extra mile by signaling that we
are going to go above and beyond both as
a salesperson to make you successful and
that's going to carry on to the
relationship that we develop with you as
a customer it's just so worth again for
the right opportunity size getting on a
plane from London to Paris and meeting a
prospective customer in person and
taking the 8 hours or whatever it takes
round trip to do that take them to
dinner develop a relationship it will
improve conversion rates and so many
have not returned to doing it um and so
again you're differentiating
there all right I think this is the last
one and I would argue along with the
first two one of the most important ones
that stands out to me I think the status
quo with this one is something like we
invest a lot in acquiring new customers
and then we have hired some csms to
focus on our customer base and when a
sales rep closes a customer they pass
that customer off to the CSM and the CSM
owns the account indefinitely and so
there are some customers that live with
a CSM that are on their first day living
with that CSM and there are some
customers that are on their thousandth
day of living with the CSM and the needs
of these two businesses one that is day
one and one that is day 1000 are just so
greatly different from one another and
where I default to is specializing in
this concept of implementation
onboarding whatever you want to call it
and obsessing over making customers
successful we did this thing at brex and
we got this one wrong we did this thing
at brex where gosh maybe like a year
into the business we started trying to
identify patterns in in the customer
base and things like lifetime value turn
rates like happiness of customers and
what we were able to do is we were
basically able to tie back all of the
things that I just described customer
happiness like NPS lifetime value the
likelihood of churn we were able to tie
all of these things back to the
experience that they had in the first 30
days that they were a customer did they
do these specific things when they were
a brand new customer or not and if they
did the things that we wanted them to do
leverage specific features issued cards
to employees migrated subscriptions
integrated their Erp is going to be
different for every company but there
are certain M stones that make you a
stickier product and that make customers
more successful and you want to make
sure that we are accomplishing these
things as soon as they on board because
it pays dividends over time through
things like life time value lower turn
rates Etc um one other point on this one
what we did with this information was
first we structured an implementation
team that focused only on making new
customers successful and it was
Milestone based as soon as a customer
onboarded through this checklist we
moved them from implementation to CSM
land where they were just like ongoing
maintenance of the customer the other
thing that we did and why I think this
is so important we tried to go back to
the customers that didn't meet the
Milestones we're looking at companies
that signed up something like 12 months
ago they didn't integrate their Erp they
didn't add additional card holders they
didn't migrate some of their
subscriptions we tried to go back and
effectively reimplement or Reon board
them it was really hard we effectively
had to resell the customer on brex and
so implementation is this point in time
only one point in time occurrence where
you have the attention of the customer
and the opportunity to get them to take
the actions that you believe will make
them more successful as a customer it's
really difficult to go back long after
the fact and try and get them to do
those things because you've missed that
opportunity okay I'll leave the nine
Concepts that we talked through if
anybody wants to come up and ask a
question I'd be delighted to try and
answer it
I think your last point I think if I
think of one maybe the most under
discuss thing is on
boarding so much energy into sales you
don't close 100% of them
you're deal down the toilet right what
were the core kpis that you learned and
to improve what were the goals how did
you improve them over time and what were
your time to full activation what did
you learn about what goals for folks
should set and d and and this is
specific to implementation
we call it onboarding
implementation that's right but getting
them get where we closed them never
start been a league one way or the other
right what did you learn about for the
team what kpis what goals how big a team
you need coverage what yeah okay this is
one where it is a little bit bre
specific I think it's a great question
I'll try and answer sort of bre specific
and then I'll try and apply it to nonre
companies because bre X is usage based
ultimately what we were orienting around
was lifetime value of the customer and I
think a really good leading indicator
for that was how quickly we were able to
get customers to migrate spend and so we
would get from the customer pre-close
how much are you spending each month on
your American Express svb whatever card
or cards you have so we would already
have the information of the SP that we
were going after and in implementation
there was this number that was the spin
that we were trying to migrate we would
try and get to that number in addition
there would be one addition one
additional internal thing that comes to
mind and then One external thing that
comes to mind the internal things that
comes to mind is there was an onboarding
checklist and I think the illustration
here each person can make the analogy in
their head around what the equivalent at
your company is but for brixs it was did
they integrate their Erp so they use
QuickBooks
have they set up the integration to map
the general ledger the types of
transactions are they mapping that
automatically to their QuickBooks
account or to their Nets Suite account
and if they do that they have invested
in making the product successful so
inter setting up an integration was a
big one issuing employees cards was
another big one because it's a total
pain to you add a user to the account
you get them set up with things like
submitting their expenses whatever else
so if we can get everybody at the
company that is added as a user issued a
card we are much stickier as a product
the disruption required to rip and
replace brex becomes much higher if all
of the employees have brex cards in
their wallets so issuing employees cards
was a big milestone that we were going
after and then migrating subscriptions
there was this onboarding checklist
again it was internal and then the
external thing was at the end of
onboarding we would uh do an NPS survey
and so we wanted to make sure that not
only were the things that we were doing
as part of this onboarding process
beneficial to us as a business things
like growing Revenue faster lifetime
value in theory and as it turns out in
practice if we were doing these things
assisting our customers in doing the
implementation helping with the general
ledger mapping help send us a
spreadsheet of the email addresses we'll
issue cards for your employees The NPS
of customers that went through the more
sophisticated onboarding process just
organically increased because they had
so much handholding throughout this
process so those were the things that we
measured at brex one was Revenue may or
may not be relevant to a contract based
business but there's this internal
checklist and companies lived in
onboarding until the checklist checklist
was complete onboarding at brecks and
what I would recommend for other folks
onboarding isn't dictated by a period of
time it's not like a 30-day process
onboarding is a Milestone based process
and until a customer is fully onboarded
they're living with that implementation
person which is motivational for the
implementation person to really make
sure that they are getting folks
successfully onboarded or less or else
that they have these customers that
linger um and you have your manager
asking like wh why is this person 90
days in and still living with you and
they haven't integrated their Erp all
right thank you so much for everybody
that attended saster has just crushed it
again and thank you